# global_armed_conflict_analysis
This repository contains the original data, a copy of the Google Colaboratory notebook used to analyze the data, data visualizations, and the research query background information for the global armed conflict analysis.

# Analyzing the Relationship between Global Military Expenditure and the Incidence of Military Conflicts 

## Background
During the fiscal year 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020, the United Nations committed over $6.518 billion to sustaining [UN Peacekeeping operations](https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/what-is-peacekeeping), a multilaternal initiative which helps host countries engaged in military conflict "navigate the difficult path from conflict to peace" through a range of services including burden sharing, civilian protection, election and political process reform, and the promotion of human rights in pursuit of an overarching mandate to aid in restoring the rule of law. Despite these efforts, military spending has continued to soar globally, with total global military expenditure rising to $1.981 trillion amid a 4.4 per cent decrease in global gross domestic product, in large part due to the COVID-19 pandemic.


With the U.S. hispanic population [on track to grow 86%](https://www.brookings.edu/blog/the-avenue/2018/03/14/the-us-will-become-minority-white-in-2045-census-projects/) in the next four decades, the impetus for data-driven analyses of employment outcomes among the Hispanic population has never been greater. As job opportunities in many of the fastest-growing industries increasingly require more than a high school diploma, comparative analyses of employment statistics among U.S. minority populations will become increasingly important and relevant to policymakers seeking to understand and address the underlying causes of [contemporary social issues](https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/public-policy/hr-public-policy-issues/Documents/15-0746%20CHCI_Research_Report_FNL.pdf) such as the skills gap, barriers to educational attainment, and discriminatory hiring practices that disproportionately impact communities of color.

Local, state, and federal leaders across the nation voice their support of policies, programs, and community-level initiatives seeking to build an economy that prioritizes those that have been left or kept behind, in theory. Subscribing to agendas that seek to [ensure education access, social mobility, and political voice](https://dornsife.usc.edu/assets/sites/1411/docs/USC_ERI_no-going-back_policy_report.pdf) for minority groups, these leaders strive to frame equity into policy and endorse various policies and programs that channel funds to bolster Latinx community resources. However, how can we assess the extent to which leaders are upholding their promises? What are some ways we can interpret the raw data on employment statistics to get a better sense of how our communities are performing in terms of offering employment opportunities to the Hispanic population? To begin exploring answers to these questions, we'll take a look at open data from [The Opportunity Atlas](https://www.opportunityatlas.org) containing statistics on employment rates for individuals of hispanic descent in cities and counties in the Los Angeles and Washington, D.C., Maryland, and Virginia (DMV) areas.
